Add Entry: General: Serialization (#634)
Codecademy/docs: content/general/concepts/serialization/serialization.md

---
Title: 'Serialization/Deserialization'
Description: 'Serialization is the process of translating a complex object into a format that can be deserialized back into a copy of the original object.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
  - 'Classes'
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'JSON'
  - 'Objects'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

Serialization is the process of translating a complex object into a format, typically a string of characters, that can be deserialized back into a copy of the original object. This is beneficial as it allows the software to save the state of an arbitrary object to a destination that can be completely unaware of its details. Any object can be saved to a simple string variable, database field, external file system, third-party application in the cloud, or even printed out on a sheet of paper.

> Common formats for serialization include XML and JSON, which have the advantage of being human-readable. However, being human-readable isn't a requirement, and in some cases seriialization use other formats, such as binary, which aren't. Regardless of the format, the purpose of serialization is that at a later point in time, the serialized data can be read or processed as input and be deserialized back into a copy of the original object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common formats for serialization include XML and JSON, which have the advantage of being human-readable. However, that is not a requirement, and in some cases, serialization uses other formats such as binary which aren't human-readable. Regardless of the format, the purpose of serialization is that at a later point in time, the serialized data can be read or processed as input and be deserialized back into a copy of the original object.
```

> When programming languages implement serialization, they often require special declarations in defined classes to make their associated objects serializable, and often require special libraries to implement this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When programming languages implement serialization, they often require special declarations in defined classes to make their associated objects serializable and often require special libraries to implement this functionality.
```
